When an investor puts money into a fund,
they receive shares in the fund which increase or
decrease in value as the funds portfolio value goes up or down.
The share represents a fraction of the funds fair value.
To get the fair value of a fund's share,
we start with the value of its investments,
also called its Assets Under Management,
or AUM for short.
We take the AUM minus expenses,
these expenses are the costs of running the fund such as employee salaries,
transaction costs, and taxes.
We then take the net value of the fund and divide by the number of shares in the fund.
The fair value per share that we get is called Net Asset Value or NAV.
This is often just pronounced NAV.